[19270] DDS Router configuration via XML profiles tutorial (#150)
eProsima/vulcanexus: docs/rst/tutorials/cloud/router_conf_via_xml_profiles/router_conf_via_xml_profiles.rst

.. include:: ../../../exports/alias.include

.. _tutorials_cloud_xml_participant_configuration:

ROS 2 Router configuration via XML profiles
===========================================

.. contents::
    :depth: 2
    :local:
    :backlinks: none

Background
----------

*eProsima ROS 2 Router*, a.k.a `DDS Router <https://github.com/eProsima/DDS-Router>`_, is an end-user software application that enables the connection of distributed ROS 2 networks (see the |rosrouter| documentation :ref:`here <vulcanexus_router>`).
That is, ROS 2 nodes such as publishers and subscriptions, or clients and services, deployed in one geographic location and using a dedicated local network will be able to communicate with other ROS 2 nodes deployed in different geographic locations on their own dedicated local networks as if they were all on the same network through the use of |rosrouter|.

This tutorial explains how to configure a Participant with XML. In particular, we will configure two Participants, one without XML on domain ``0`` and one with XML on domain ``1``, and use the |rosrouter| to allow them to communicate between each other.

.. note::

>     This tutorial is similar to the :ref:`tutorials_router_change_domain` tutorial, since we will launch a *talker* and a *listener* on different domains and connect them with the |rosrouter|. The main difference between both tutorials is that, in this one, one of the Participants' configurations will be written in XML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This tutorial is similar to the :ref:`tutorials_router_change_domain` tutorial, since we will launch a *talker* and a *listener* on different domains and connect them with the |rosrouter|. The main difference between both tutorials is that, in this one, one of the Participants will be configured using Fast DDS XML profiles.
```
